Hear God's word from John chapter one.
In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God, and he was in the beginning with God.
All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made.
In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness is not overcome it.
And the word became flesh and dwelt among us.
And we have seen His glory, glorious of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth.
The grass withers and the flowers fade, but the word of our God will stand forever.
Amen, you may be seated.
Pray with me, merciful and gracious Father in heaven.
We give you thanks for your word,
Your word which is not far off but is drawn near in the person.
Your word which is life and light.
Your word which brings healing.
I pray that your light and your healing would come to us as we meditate on your word this morning.
It's in your name that we pray.
Amen.
A handful of years ago, there was this great commercial.
That only aired in Europe, you might have seen it.
It's probably made a lot of sermon illustrations because it was so good.
It opens with this guy, this old man in Poland receiving a package and then he gets another package and then you see him sitting on a computer and what he's doing, he's learning to speak English.
And as it goes, he starts putting sticky notes around his house like pot, you know, door, fridge.
The dog gets a sticky note too.
And then fast forward to him getting on a plane and then getting off a plane in downtown London and walking up to a door and he opens the door and it's his son.
He gives a son this hug and then he sees his daughter-in-law.
Quick greeting.
Then he makes his way into the house and gets on his knees and stares at this little girl in the eyes and says, hi, I'm your grandpa.
And it's just touching beautiful moment, beautiful scene.
And I mean, this is a scene, a picture.
of what God does for us in the incarnation.
And God does the same thing for us as he learns our language, as he stoops down, as he comes to meet us where we are, coming to us where we are.
And when you think about the idea of the incarnation, and most of you, I'm guessing walking in this room is something you've thought about before, and maybe you feel like, yeah, I got that down and God came and flashed cool.
Let's move on to the next part of the story.
But it's wild to actually consider
just what it means that the God who made everything, sustains everything, actually took on flesh, flesh and blood.
It's actually a pretty wild thing to consider.
And I'm not sure that our imaginations are actually big enough to really grapple with the reality of what that means.
And I think because it overwhelms our senses and imaginations, we kind of like, yeah, it happened, accept it, we kind of move on.
But this morning, I want us to dwell on this amazing truth.
Because I think oftentimes, we can have a tendency, depending on your perspective and how you grew up and history and all those things, we can have a tendency to pit like the grandness, the bigness of God, against the nearness of God.
What I mean by that is this, like some of us, like you love the idea that God is.
Big, he's this massive being that he almost feels cold, and you don't mind that.
Just like walking into a cathedral.
You feel the grandness of God in those places.
And it's this amazing thing, but it's also a little bit cold.
Some of you prefer that, or we pit that against the idea that he's super near, that he's my buddy.
It's that Jesus is my homeboy, t-shirt kind of guy.
It's a guy that when he prays, he says, oh, Papa Lord.
It's like, oh, I don't know if he should say that.
But I get what they're after, right?
The fact that God is near, he's personal, he's a knowable being.
And sometimes we say, oh, you're either this or you're that.
And I think in the incarnation, you get this profound reality that it's both and.
It's yes.
He is near.
He's near as the person sitting next to you.
He's flesh and bony as the person sitting next to you.
But he's also still God.
And this morning is not going to be a very practical sermon because I just really want us to, for a moment here, marvel at the character of God.
Marvel at the fact that God is the God who draws in the air.
And I think as we marvel at this, it'll encourage and strengthen us to follow him as we draw near to him, to each other, and to those around us in this world.
So we're just gonna ask three very simple questions this morning.
The first is, who is Jesus?
The second question is, how did Jesus come on earth?
And finally, why did Jesus come to earth?
So three simple questions.
These are simple enough to where even if I just said, hey, fill me an answer to each of these questions, you could probably get some of this answer right.
You probably get all the answers right.
And when we jump into topics like incarnation, you're probably not gonna hear anything that's profoundly new to you this morning.
But if we're honest, we always need to be reminded of these truths.
This is why we gather each week to be reminded of these ancient truths because we are forgetful people
and we need to be reminded and encouraged by these truths.
And so I hope that's what happens this morning.
So first question, who is Jesus?
Who is this guy?
The first thing we learn here about Jesus is in the beginning was the word.
So Jesus is, there's two truths about who Jesus is.
The first is that Jesus is the word.
And of course, we know this is Jesus.
The word became flesh and dwelt among us and says in verse 14 and goes on, this is Jesus Christ.
So we know that this is Jesus is the word.
in this word, but what does it mean that he is this word?
Well, first clue that we get to understand what does it mean that he is the word is that it's in the beginning.
So where is this word found?
This word is found in the beginning.
John's story about Jesus doesn't begin with the manger scene, doesn't begin with the angels, it doesn't begin with Joseph and Mary,
His story about who Jesus is, which all the gospels write are stories about who Jesus is, who is this guy, begins in the beginning.
When is the, in the beginning, it's the words from, from Genesis chapter one, in the beginning.
In the beginning, Genesis, this is, this is the word.
This is who Jesus says.
He's the word that was there at the beginning of all time.
And it later says,
You know, later in the Gospel of John, Jesus says the words that before Abraham was, I am.
Jesus taken the very name of God.
He's not a creature among creatures.
He is the word that caused all creation to come forth.
And that's what you see here, that he was in the beginning with God and all things were made through him and without him was not anything made that was made.
A little tongue twister sentence for me anyways.
So this is who Jesus says.
He is the word.
He is the word that wasn't just present at creation.
He is the word that was there doing the creating.
You know, in Psalm 33, it's the word speaks the heavens into existence.
This is what, who Jesus is.
And Psalm 107, his word heals his people.
This is who he is.
He is the word.
He's not just another prophet coming to speak God's word, just with the prophets where the prophets, you know, God gave his word to the prophets to speak his word to the people.
No, Jesus was the word.
which leads to the second thing that this leads to is what is this word?
Well, it's God Himself.
Jesus says, God, it says the word was with God and the word was God.
I mean, this is the foundation to what we believe about the nature of who God is is found in this, the nature of the Trinity.
That Jesus, the both these things are true, that Jesus is both with God and He is God.
He's a distinct person, this is the nature of the Trinity, the Father, Son and the Holy Spirit, they all distinct,
persons, but one nature, one will.
Jesus did not come as an assistant to God.
He came as fully God and fully man.
This is who he is.
The thing to consider about this is this, that the God who always was and always will be the God who out of creation, out of his love created all things, the God who says that he knows all the hairs on your head, the God who causes the sun to rise each day
That transcendent one, the big one who's over all and see all and sovereign over all things, is he has come near, he has made himself knowable.
The word has taken on flesh.
There's knowable as the person sitting next to you.
It's like if you just poke the person next to you for a second.
You know, like they're physical, right?
You can feel him, you can touch him.
This is Jesus.
He lived as an infant.
The word took on flesh.
He became as an infant.
He got scrapes on his knees.
He lost childhood games.
He was hungry.
He mourned the loss of his friend.
He took pity on the crowds that didn't have a shepherd over them.
He knew what it was like to not know where he was going to lay his head.
In those moments, Jesus was never less God.
He is both.
He is always both.
I mean, if he were only human, he could sympathize with us, but he couldn't save us.
There's only divine, he couldn't become the second Adam to lead humanity into a new creation.
He is both and he's always both.
It's a marvel at that truth.
So how does this happen?
How can the eternal take on flesh and do this?
Let's see if there's a second question.
How did Jesus actually come on earth?
How did Jesus come on earth?
There's a second question we're going to turn to.
Speaking about how Jesus accomplishes this task.
He doesn't accomplish this task of coming near us by making us go to him, but through this wild descent from heaven to earth, he draws near to his people.
I mean, Philippians 2 says it like this, that though he was in the form of God, though Jesus, that he there was in the form of God, he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, both in the light, born in the likeness of men.
And speaking of this descent that Jesus goes into from heaven,
to earth, taken on the likeness of men.
And I think there's two ways we see that he descends into our likeness here.
The first is that the word becomes flesh.
The word became flesh.
It's speaking about the incarnation.
You see us Lewis talks about the incarnation like a diver that's leaving the beautiful sunny shore and the green grass and the
with blue skies and diving into the water and descending into the darkness to grab something of a treasure and bring it back into the light.
This is like a good image for what the incarnation is like.
Jesus leaving the glory of heaven, taking on the form of a servant, the poverty of man, being born to draw near, to go into the darkness.
But the darkness doesn't overcome him.
This is what Jesus does and it gives us an imagination.
for this.
Jesus taking on flesh is Him entering another world, which is our world.
This is what the incarnation is.
And even to get more into this darkness and the reality of the weight of what He's doing, the incarnation comes from the root word of where we get carnal or carnage or carnious out up if you're into that.
I am.
It means in fleshing.
Literally taking flesh on yourself.
This is His descent, taking our flesh
and all that it means.
I think about all that means to have your own flesh.
There's weakness there.
There's frailty, which he will experience fully when he goes to the cross.
His flesh isn't less human than yours or mine.
He doesn't partially come onto the earth into our flesh, but fully enters the darkness of the world by taking our flesh and all that means on himself.
Not only does he come on the earth and the flesh, he descends into our wilderness.
We see this in verse 14 that it says that he dwelt among us.
This word dwelt among, it means tabernacle, which means he makes a home.
This is meant to harken back to Israel's history.
When God tabernacle among his people, when was it?
When they were in the wilderness, when they were wandering out of Egypt to the Promised Land and they set up these tents
was where they lived and God said, I'm set up a tent for me in the middle of you.
And that's gonna be my temple.
You're in a tent, I'm in a dwelling tent.
They didn't build a temple for God, like a home for him until they had homes.
And so he's like, hey, where you are, I'm gonna be.
He dwells with them.
You're in a tent in the wilderness, all being a tent in the wilderness.
God is doing this again in Christ.
Jesus doesn't come in the flesh and live in the nice places and the palaces
where he's got servants attending to him, making sure he's never hungry, no.
It's not what he does.
He lives where we live in our wildernesses, in our weightings, in our wanderings, in our weariness, in our uncertainties.
That's where Jesus dwells with us.
To use another analogy from scripture, he is the God who yokes himself to you, who attaches himself to you.
These and your burdens, not by merely taking them away,
but by taking them on himself, by carrying them with you and for you.
This truth about Jesus' yoke in himself to us, I think it's both an amazing truth, and it's a bit of an unsettling one too.
It's amazing that God would do that, that the God who created all things, sustains the thing, come and serve us and yoke himself to us and carry us, take our problems on himself.
It's an amazing thing to think that God would draw near to do this.
But when you dwell on it a little bit, it can be unsettling because it's like, well, I don't suppose you could like speed this up.
You speed this process up, you know, like it's great that you're drawing near to me, but why not just take these burdens away?
Why leave these burdens on me?
If you have the power to take them away, I'd prefer you just take them away, right?
It's amazing and it's unsettling and reality description doesn't give us a great answer to that question.
At least not one that often satisfies us.
John doesn't really give us an answer.
He just gives us a person.
And that person is God in the flesh who comes and draws near.
There is waiting, waiting for the renewal of all things, waiting to get our inheritance, which is for us in heaven, waiting in the world still infected with sin.
There is waiting, but we don't wait alone.
There is wilderness still, but wilderness with God who is near.
The reality is, depending on how strong and dark your wilderness is, this doesn't always sound like enough.
What is it?
How does that nearness of God actually help us?
How does the incarnation help us when it doesn't take us the darkness necessarily away?
So these are our final questions.
Well, why then did Jesus come at all?
Why did Jesus come at all?
I think the reason we sometimes wonder if Jesus' presence nearness to us helps at all when we're struggling is because we underestimate
Just what it means for the God who made all things and sustained all things to be near to us.
So why did he come?
Well verse 14, we see this, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as the only son from the Father full of grace and truth.
What does this tell us?
He's come to make himself known to us.
Why that you might see him.
Now this is not speaking about like the image of Christ,
We can't see him, right?
In heaven now, it's not talking about like if a sketch artist was able to perfectly capture who Jesus was and show us that picture so we could see him.
That's not what it's talking about here.
In fact, John's not describing the features of Jesus here, strong jawbone.
That's not what you find here.
How does he describe him?
Seeing his glory.
That's what it's about, his glory.
So what is this glory that he wants us to see in him?
Well, at least an aspect of it is the glory is overflowing light of Christ of God himself.
And I mean, John's gospel kind of gets at this when his whole gospel is building towards the awesome moment of the transfiguration where you get this divine, this radiance, which
echoes kind of what happened in Moses when he went up Mount Sinai and he came down with God and he was glowing, he was radiating.
The glory of God is his radiance.
It's his light, it's his presence.
It's heaven, right?
And where does God, what is heaven?
But it's this place that God lives and it's, his glory fills, his light fills and radiates all over heaven.
Well, in Christ, that radiating glory, that radiating light is coming from heaven to earth.
And this is what he wants us to see is the nearness of his glory, of his presence, of his guiding light.
Heaven itself is making a descent to earth.
And what does that mean for us other than this light, this glory, this radiance?
Well, the rubber meets the road here where we see it's full of grace and truth.
That is what heavenly glory is described as.
It's where God's grace and truth are expansive and everywhere.
The glory of Jesus is His grace and truth.
And what is this grace, the unmerited favor of the Lord?
It's not something you can earn.
It doesn't wait for darkness to retreat before it advances.
It dives down into the darkness and rescues you, bringing what along with it is the truth, which is why Jesus came.
He didn't come to play human.
He didn't come to live a day in the life of, but to make himself known to you that you might know his grace and truth and be delivered from darkness, to make his light known, to make his glory known in you that it might spread over this whole earth.
This is why he has come to make his glory known.
And the place on earth that this glory and this grace and this truth of Jesus shines most clearly is when.
We see this glory most clearly, not in the birth of Jesus.
It's in His death.
You want to know the character of God?
You want to marvel at the nature of who God is?
It's not just that He came and it took on her flesh for a bit.
But it's that He came and incarnated and took on flesh that He might die.
He put on flesh that it could be torn.
He was born to die.
He took on our humanity so that he could bear humanity's sin on himself.
This is why he has come.
He dove into the depths of the ocean, taking our frailty, our sin and death itself on himself so that when he ascended into heaven, the thing that he was precious to him that he grabbed that he took with him was you.
It was me.
It was securing the future for this world where all things will be made new.
His nearness to us.
means the world even in our suffering because he took on the sting of suffering itself and secures an eternal inheritance for you.
Do you see him?
Do you marvel at his glory?
This is what we're called to rediscover at this Christmas and this is why we go through these stories every year and we recycle these stories so that we become enamored by them.
Enamored by this truth and rediscovering that God never changes.
God is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
It's us that changes, how we view Him that changes, that He is the God who descends, who draws near, that you can know Him, takes on flesh, bears our sins, that we can rise with Him.
This is why His nearness and our sadness matters because in His taste in our sadness, Christ secures a future where tears will be no more.
And this is what we're called the stare at the sea.
And once we see that, once we gaze upon His glory, it changes everything.
Because if He is God and He is with you and He is for you and He has redeemed you, then not only do you receive the light, but you get to live your life in the light, in the glory of Christ.
And just as Moses radiated when he got to spend time with God, so the more you spend and you marvel with God, the more you radiate in this world.
I mean, this is why the church often talks about living an incarnational life.
It means just as Christ came and went out to us and put on our flesh.
So we, as we have the glory of God and His grace and His mercy and His truth, living in us, we are the ones that go out into this world with that, and we radiate that light.
So that day two might receive the grace, the mercy and truth of the gospel, that they can become their own lights and its spreads and grows.
And this is what has been happening in the last 2000 years since Jesus has come.
And it will happen until he comes again.
May we be a people who see, who gaze upon his glory, his grace and truth, and may we marvel at this.
Pray with me.
God of mercy and grace.
We give you thanks for your goodness, for your love, for your glory.
I pray that you'd help us to marvel at these truths, through marvel at your glory, at your goodness, that you make a shine as you shine.
I pray this in your holy name, amen.